# Codebook

Here you can find the description of all the variables in the tidied dataset generated by the run_analysis.R file in this repository.

## The transformation on original data using run_analysis()
The following has been done to achieve the tidied dataset:

1. Names of the variables
    + Names of the variables are read from the file "features.txt"
    + Names are sanitized to replace the characters "(" ,")" and "-" (Refer to R reference documentation on make.names for definition on valid names)
    + Names are converted to lowercase
2. Process test Dataset
    + Read list of subject id from "subject_test.txt"
    + Read list of activity id from "y_test.txt"
    + Read list of data from "X_test.txt" and replace with headers from #1
    + Concatenate subject id, activity id and data together
    + Extract only the mean and standard deviation measurements for each subject id and activity id.
        + NOTE: Referring to "features_info.txt", **only** the following variables are considered as mean and standard deviation measurements
            + mean()
            + std()
3. Process train Dataset
    + Repeat the same steps for test Dataset on the train Dataset and corresponding files.
4. Processed datasets from #2 and #3 are combined.
5. The required data is then extracted
    + Read in activity names from "activity_labels.txt"
    + Merge activity names with the combined dataset from #4
    + "Activity ID" variable is then removed
5. Tidied data is derived from #5 by performing the following
    + Required data is aggregated and grouped by subject id and activity name. The aggreate function is the average i.e. arithmetic mean
    + activity names in the oberservations are converted to lowercase
    + data variable names are appened with "average_"
6. Tidied data is saved to TXT file
    

The only non-data variables are "Subject" and "Activity", which is used for grouping.

For variables derived from mean and standard deviation estimation, the previous labels
are augmented with the terms "Mean" or "StandardDeviation".

The data set is written to the file analysisReadyData.txt.


